>> Jon Kuperman: ARIA stands for
Accessible Rich Internet Applications.
And I kinda wanna to show an example of,
if you had to,
how you could use ARIA and
JavaScript to give
elements all the functionality that they
might have if you use the Symantic one.
So if say, for some reason you have
these spans that you use for buttons and
you have to keep them as spans, which you
probably don't, cuz you just use buttons.
But let's just say.
I just wanted to show both
that it's possible but
also all the work that would go
into making them accessible.
So the first thing that you're gonna wanna
do is you're gonna wanna add a role.
So adding role button with
to something is just,
the roles are just communicating
to the screen reader.
So now the screen reader is going to parse
it as though it's a button, not a span.
It doesn't have any of the functionalities
still, but at least a screen reader will
say, here's a click me button as opposed
to ignoring it cuz spans aren't focusable.
Then you're going to want to add
tabindex so you can tab over to it,
like it's a button.
We covered at the beginning, so tabindex=0
makes it tabbable just in its place,
in order, wherever it can be found.
And then the most important thing
is you're gonna wanna add those
listeners, right?
So you need both an onclick listener but
you also need an onKeyUp listener.
And in that you need a handle to
make sure that only the right button
is pressed, like Space.
It needs to handle Space key but it
doesn't need to trigger anything on Esc or
Tab again, heaven forbid.
So you kind of get into this situation
where if you wanted to kinda go
the long route of not using Symantic HTML
ARIA will really help you get there,
or even some of the accessibility
rules baked into HTML like role.
But it starts to get really
messy where you're like
have kind of a lot to maintain.
This one we talked about a little bit but
I kinda wanted to come back and
focus on it.
We talked about labels and
aria-labeledby and
I kinda wanted to also complete
that picture with aria-describedby.
And so aria-describedby is
a really perfect place to put,
we had a good amount of really good
questions about like what if you have
this specific type form of information
about a form field or something like that.
describedby is like a really
great place to put it.
This is what you needed to know,
this is why we're asking for it.
Here's what happens if you click this,
here's what, you know what I mean,
all these different things.
So the label should still be
very specific, the label for
this is just close.
And that's just like an x
button on a moto let's say.
So you wouldn't want to put that in
the label cuz way too much information but
what's cool, and this is one of
the areas that we get into describedby,
where some screen readers implement
these things pretty differently.
But for the most part,
what you're gonna have is when you rest on
an interactive item, after the screen
reader reads the label and tells you what
type of items it is, then it will go
into reading this nice description.
And if you tab away it'll just stop.
So this is a really great example of, hey,
if you click this thing, if you close
the window, it's gonna discard any of
the information that you've entered and
take you back to the main page.
A really nice conversation
to have here and honestly,
I think a lot of the times this would
be good to have visually as well.
Somewhere visually that you can see,
if I click this thing I'm losing
a lot of different stuff.
Another cool thing is you can actually
use ARIA attributes in your CSS.
I've seen this one a lot,
where you have some kind of drop down.
We're going to get into ARIA expanded, but
basically ARIA gives you all these great
tools for, is it clicked, is it hovered,
is it expanded,
all these different things.
And so you can kind of do neat things,
I saw this on a site which is,
you have this drop down with
a bunch of icons in it, and
they're either expanded or
they're not expanded.
So if they're not expanded they're
a little arrow pointing this way and
when they're expanded they move down.
But I just thought it was cool that you
can, as your adding these ARIA rules you
can also catch them in CSS as selectors
and do different things with them.